Nate over bullhorn:
Sir. Excuse me, sir.
Sir! I need you
to put your hands up
where I can see them.
- ( Joel scoffs )
- Nate: Higher.
- Joel: What the fuck?
- Mm, that's good.
Ma'am, pull his trousers
down around his knees.
- Ah! ( laughing )
- Joel: Nate!
- ( laughs )
- Whoa, what the heck, man?
- Dude!
- ( car door closes )
Joel freaking Hurley.
( laughs )
- Here in Summit, Utah.
- ( laughs )
Come here, man.
- Come here.
- Good to see you.
Man, I never thought
I'd see you here again.
- Well.
- And I'm gonna have
to ask the two of you
to step off
this property,
which is technically
a crime scene.
Which she should know,
'cause I've kind of,
like, told her already
three times.
So, you guys
know each other?
Ah, more or less.
Mostly less.
- But, yeah, if you--
- ( door closes )
- Oh, hey!
- Alan: Hey.
It's all right,
it's all right.
It's just
a nostalgia thing.
You remember
Joel Hurley.
He used to live here.
Looks familiar.
- Alan Pape.
How are you?
- Good.
I assume you folks
saw the yellow tape
bottom of the drive?
Petra: We came,
actually, the other way.
Sorry about that.
You were the detective
in charge four years ago.
- Alan: Do I know you?
- No, we never met.
Nate:
So, guys, both of you,
I need you
off the property now.
Alan:
Yeah, I hate
to be a hard-ass,
but we got press crawling
up out of the ground
like worms.
Folks up on the hill
just trying
to enjoy a modicum
of privacy.
- If you, uh...
- Of course.
Nate:
Alan.
Listen, don't worry
about Alan.
He's just doing
his job.
He knows where
his bread is buttered.
That doesn't
mean it was smart
to bring him up here.
Joel, on a lighter note,
you'll never guess
who I literally just left
to come up here.
- Oh, yeah?
- He's a Virgo,
he hates long lines.
- ( chuckles )
- He loves leisurely walks
in the rain
- and Italian cuisine.
- Huh.
Nate:
Actually, I don't know
if any of those are true.
I don't even know
if he's a Virgo.
- ( chatter )
- ( dishes clanking )
Joel:
No fucking way!
Frank!
- ( laughs ) Ahem.
- Nate: Hey, Frank!
Joel:
Yeah!
( exhales )
Okay. Ahem.
- Hey, buddy!
- Hey, no way!
- No way.
- Look at that beard.
Look who I found
trolling for hookers
by the interchange.
How you guys doing?
You wanna sit down?
- Heck, yeah, we're gonna sit.
- Yeah, sit down.
- ( chuckles )
- Just sitting by yourself?
- Yeah.
- ( both chuckling )
- Oh, Frank, this is Petra.
- Oh, we met a few days ago.
She's been all over me
about the night in question,
the night we went to
the movies-- "Hobbit 2."
Yeah, at Eastridge.
Not as good as the first.
Seriously,
who names anything
"Desolation of 'Smog'"?
- ( Frank chuckles )
- Nate: Smaug.
- So, how's Laura?
- Joel: She's good.
- Yeah,
it's a really good thing.
- You guys got married.
Said he saw it
on Facebook.
Yeah, we just tried
to keep it small,
just family.
Hey, it's a clean break,
I get that, man.
It was super clear.
Everybody's fine with that.
Don't worry about that.
It's fine.
Well, I'm, uh--
I'm kind of done here.
Joel:
Well, shit.
I'll tell you the great thing
about being manager now--
the benefits
are awesome.
Like, I get to leave
super late
and I get to arrive
super early.
( laughing )
Frank:
How long are you here?
We've gotta hang out.
Just a couple of days.
Yeah, we should definitely
hang out.
You wanna make a plan now?
Should I give you a call or...?
We'll hang out now
if you want to.
Wanna hang out now?
Or not.
- If you're busy,
I can-- whatever.
- Ahem.
Whatever you want is fine.
We don't have to hang out
at all if you're busy.
- I understand.
- No, I'm-- I'm just
a little fried,
but, uh,
you taking off?
Yeah.
You want a ride?
Yeah,
that'd be good.
- That good
with you guys?
- Great.
- Frank: Good, yeah!
- I'll give you a ride.
- Like old times.
- Yes, oh, yeah.
- ( both chuckling )
Well, I'll see you guys--
see you guys later.
- Nate: Yeah.
Another day.
- Another day.
Let me, uh-- I gotta
settle up here.
And I have a sour
piece of news.
- Nate: Hmm?
- In my car and not
in my pocket is...
- Frank, Frank, come on.
- ...my wallet.
Thank you.
- Get out of here.
- I'll, uh-- I'll text you
tomorrow.
- Great.
- ( clears throat )
- Joel: Man.
- Frank: Yeah, I know.
- Get out of town.
- I know, man.
Is this nuts or what?
Frank:
It's been, what,
four, five years now?
Nate:
Frank's subtle.
Mm.
So, what's the deal
with Alan?
Alan? Okay.
Here's what you need
to know about Alan.
30 years,
he worked for
the whole town.
Population: 36,000.
Drove the same
Chevy Malibu.
Last three years,
he has worked
for 12 families
and is on
his second Porsche,
which he just loves
to drive around past us.
I'm glad
you're good, man.
You look like the guy I met
when you first got to town.
( both chuckling )
- Well, my job
is pretty physical.
- Mm-hmm.
A lot of that's the gym,
though, too, isn't it?
Isn't it?
Come on.
- Yeah, I supplement.
- Uh-huh.
But most of it's,
you know, whatever.
Whatever.
( chuckles )
You said you
were working where,
some kind of hunting thing?
Yeah, my uncle
has this, uh--
he has an outfit.
It's-- it's nice.
Uh, yeah.
Clean air.
Nice.
And Laura's working
for a doctor, is that right?
Yeah.
Big contrast.
What are you
getting at with that?
Oh, nothing, nothing.
Just... nothing.
Have you met the guy?
Is he a nice guy, though?
I don't know.
I mean, he flies to Bolivia
and does cleft palates
for free.
Ah.
( chuckles )
So he does boobs and Botox
to pay for his Mercedes,
is that it?
- ( both laughing )
- That sounds about right.
Eh, I don't know
what he drives.
It looks like he had
a very nice Christmas
party, though.
I saw it in a post
Laura did.
Office party,
it looked like.
I didn't
see you in it.
Yeah, I don't know.
I think I had
a work thing or something.
I don't remember.
Look, man, the Laura thing,
it actually is kind of
really great.
The movies thing,
that was--
I get it.
- No, seriously--
- I get it.
I get it.
I didn't
say anything.
We were
at the movies.
Cool.
It's just I never
told Laura about her.
I think
it would kill her.
He said we should
stick to the story.
That they're
two separate events.
That us lying
about the girl has nothing
to do with the murder
and that we didn't even
know about the murder
until after
we made the lie.
So that's
what just happened.
So, yeah.
( exhales )
- What was her name?
- Who?
- The woman he slept with.
- I have no idea.
He slept with a woman,
you picked him up
in the morning,
and he never
told you her name?
Why do girls think all guys
brag about their conquests?
Girls brag
way more than guys do.
They tell each other
everything and they have
zero boundaries.
What about
an address?
Frank, um, the morning
of New Year's,
where did
you get him?
In town.
Across from,
uh, the thing
with the, you know.
Okay, so you don't even
know where she lived.
( sighs )
Did you give her
your job, too?
Or just this particular
investigation?
It's not
an investigation.
It's just
two curious people
asking questions.
Frank,
if you never
heard her name
or saw a person
and you never went
to her apartment,
how do you know
there even was a woman?
Okay.
( sighs )
I want you to tell him
that you told us
about the night,
- about the lie.
- What?
- Why?
- Just do it tomorrow.
I'll see if I can
get a man on it.
- I probably can't, not yet.
- I'll follow him.
- What are you, a team now?
- Frank, seriously, bro.
You lied.
Forget
just to a friend,
but you lied to a friend
who's also a cop.
And I'm trying
to sort through this.
And I need
some space from you
because Joel also
happens to be my friend.
Now, here's what
I want you to do.
I want you
to go to his hotel
in the morning
and tell him
that you told us.
If, after
Frank leaves,
Joel asks to borrow
your car, call me.
Stall him.
Don't do anything
but call me.
How's Melissa?
Melissa's his wife.
They met in middle school.
Her dad's a pastor
at St. Luke's.
What is your problem?
This is ridiculous.
Francis,
I need you to focus.
Nate: Ta-da!
Petra:
Lovely.
Who knocks
at their own house?
I don't know.
It's just, it's--
a little weird
bringing a girl home
to meet your wife.
It's stupid.
I don't know.
Oh, okay.
I get it.
- Hi.
- Melissa: Hi.
And he's going on
and on.
"Don't worry,
she's gorgeous.
There's no way she has
any interest in me."
- ( chuckles )
- And what do you know,
he's right.
- ( chuckles )
- Nate: What can I say?
- You can either finish that
or leave the table.
- I call it like I see it.
Natey told me
about your brother.
- Petra: Mmm.
- I, uh-- I tell her
everything.
Not only is she
my better half,
but she's also
a police officer, so.
You know, everything
stays within the cone.
- Mmm.
- And your dad's away
for life, right?
- He's David Neill?
- My father is David Neill,
yes.
I read about
his arrest.
Yanked him
out of the house
on Christmas Eve.
That must have been
quite a game changer,
family wise.
It was
a significant moment
in my youth.
Hey, eat your vegetables.
And your mom, is she--
She died
a few months ago.
- Oh, she was the lady
who I met back in the day.
- I'm sorry I brought that up.
- Petra:
No, it's fine, trust me.
- Apologies. Sorry.
I guess--
I guess the Neill girls
got all the good genes.
Not so much
with the Neill boys, so.
Something like that.
- ( laughing )
- Nate.
Yeah?
- Oh.
- We'll-- we'll be back
very soon.
We're gonna need
about 15 minutes.
Please sit.
Enjoy your dinner.
We'll be right back, okay?
Morgan?
Official man-of-the-house
hat on, okay?
Why?
She's pretty,
she's smart,
she's funny.
Melissa:
She's lost.
Are you kidding?
She is the most focused,
directed person I've ever met.
Yeah, well,
there you go.
- ( phone ringing )
- It's Alan.
It's 10:45!
- ( exhales ) But I...
- ( ringing stops )
- ( phone ringing )
- Can I just say
something else?
Uh, no, you have exceeded
your quota of words
for the evening.
Well, then...
let me just say I--
I feel guilty.
Like I'm being
untruthful.
- To Joel?
- Yeah.
There's a bigger strategy
at work.
You're serving
a bigger truth.
- ( phone ringing )
- Oh, come on, Alan!
( sighs )
He's gonna
wake up Morgan.
Hey, yeah,
what's up?
Yeah, what--
what time tomorrow, though?
Well, I kind of
wanted to be up by
the property by then.
If-- right,
but if you...
( clears throat )
Yeah, okay,
I can swing by there
for a minute, yeah.
All right, 10:00 a.m.
If you wanted to-- oh.
So, how was that
for holding my ground?
( whispers )
Frick.
( keyboard clicking )
( phone chimes )
( Frank sighs )
Okay, so...
last night,
after I dropped you off...
I went back
to the diner...
and I told them the truth
about that night.
I told them that you and I
were not at the movies.
- Joel: Frank, oh, fuck, man.
- Frank: What's it even matter?
- It's, like, four years ago.
- What matters is--
what matters is
I admitted to you that
I shouldn't have done it
and I literally
haven't done anything
even like that again.
Not even close, man!
Okay.
Okay, may I ask why?
I just thought
with everything else
that happened that night,
it's really important that
the truth was out there,
you know?
And it would've
been easy for me
to admit it to Laura!
I wanted to,
I wanted to get it
off my chest,
but you know what,
that would've been
the selfish thing.
Yeah, you're right,
it must've been hard for you
to keep this in
all those years.
Are you serious?
( sighs )
Oh, man.
- ( exhales )
- ( chuckles ) No.
No, man,
it's not on you.
It's on me.
I made the choice,
and-- and I don't know
if it was the right one, but--
to keep it from Laura.
To protect her.
But it's all fine.
Laura will be fine.
- You and me, we're good?
- Oh, yeah.
It's-- I mean,
it's my fuckup.
I'm just-- I'm...
( chuckling )
I'm just glad
we're good.
( chuckles )
- Thanks for coming by.
- Yeah, it's no problem.
( phone chimes )
( chatter )
- ( buzzing )
- Nate: Listen,
I got to, uh...
Alan:
No, we got
to the truth.
The hand
just confirms it.
And when the body
is found,
it'll be even more so.
You can lie to me,
but don't lie to yourself.
What this is
really about, Nate,
is you finally having
a chance to go back
- and rewrite the past.
- That's not true, Alan.
You didn't like
what you perceived to be
the way I took it
away from you.
And now you have someone--
one person, finally--
who stirs up that sense
that you were somehow
wronged by me.
Alan,
it's not about you!
No?
It's about me
trying to do my job.
Your job is about me.
Lest you forget,
when I retired,
there were those
who felt you were
green, remember?
And don't
make me an idiot
for going to bat
for you.
And don't make
yourself an idiot
for going to bat
for the only person
who has
a vested interest
in turning over
the good work of you--
yes, you--
and all your peers.
Now, I need to go.
I got clients.
And not just the O'Connors,
but a bunch of them
who have press literally
climbing their walls,
trying to shiv each other
in the back for any
version of a story.
Are we good?
Sure, Alan.
We're always good.
- ( kids shouting )
- ( Joel sighs )
( sighs )
( whistle trills )
( kids playing )
Okay.
So, two days ago, I see
my old gymnastics coach
at Petco.
Now this.
Joel.
I know.
- Tia.
- I know.
And I assume, you know,
if you remember me,
you also remember
that night.
Yeah, I think that is
fair to assume, yes.
And so, the--
the reason I'm here
is-- well,
out of the blue...
( chuckles )
I'm in a-- I'm in
a really good thing.
I'm married,
- and, um...
- Hmm.
...I don't know
if you know this,
but she and I,
we were--
we were
in a thing then, too.
Is this like
a 12-step thing?
No.
Well...
( chuckles )
No, it's, um--
I was thinking, um...
I don't know
if you're ever gonna
get approached about this...
but if you are and
if you're comfortable
with it,
I was wondering
if you would be okay
with not mentioning that
we actually slept together,
if possible.
I'm sorry,
I-- I don't understand.
Why would this
even come up now?
There are some questions
about that night.
I mean, not that
have anything to do
with... whatever.
It's--
it's a long story.
( sighs )
But things are--
things are really good,
and, man, I've worked
through a lot with my wife.
And if it comes up...
Well, I'm not gonna lie.
Right, look, I'm--
I totally get that.
And that's cool.
I mean-- ( sighs )
Because we didn't
have sex.
Right.
Gotcha.
- No.
- Thank you.
No, no, we actually,
seriously did not have sex.
I'm sorry?
I wanted to.
I'm not saying
I'm proud of that,
but you practically
fell asleep in my car.
I was like,
"This is a six-minute ride
and he already can't keep
his head off the window."
And then once we got
to my place,
all you did was
barf and apologize
and pass out
on my floor.
So, uh--
so we did not have sex?
- We did not have sex.
- Wow, that-- oh, my God.
- Mm.
- That is incredible.
I mean, holy shit,
that is awesome.
- Thank you.
- Yeah.
I mean, it's really me
who should be thanking you,
'cause it's like they say,
sometimes the best cure
for a fantasy
is the fantasy itself.
Oh, really?
I was like,
"Here's this guy
lying in his own throw up."
Yeah, like a polar bear rug
or something.
And I was like,
"Tia, you have created
this reality.
Mark this time--
midnight, new day,
new year, new life."
So, seriously,
thank you.
( school bell ringing )
Well, that was a recess
for the books.
- Yeah.
- You know, congratulations
on your marriage.
- That's a good thing.
- Thanks.
Hey, Tia, sorry.
Um...
What do you mean
by midnight?
That's what time it was
when we got in.
But you said it was
a six-minute car ride
and I-- I passed out
right away.
Yeah.
But you picked me up
at, like, 9:45 or 10:00.
I mean, I actually
remember specifically.
It was--
it was 9:46.
I got you at literally
three minutes to midnight,
'cause as we were driving away,
we heard the people cheering.
And you said we should kiss
'cause it's midnight,
so we pulled over
for a second
and that was when you were
half asleep against the window.
So, we drove on,
then at 12:08,
you were on the floor
of my apartment.
I was like,
"Do I wash his clothes?
That's, like, 24 minutes,
then it's 33 to dry,
which brings me
to just after 1:00 a.m.,
and I have to be
at work at 9:00.
So, yeah,
our entire date lasted
- 11 minutes, which...
- Awesome.
...given its legendary status,
is pretty awesome, right?
- Awesome.
- Yeah.
Well, I really
gotta go, so.
And thank you.
( kids shouting )
No, thank you.
Joel's voice:
9:46.
I know it was 9:46.
Do you? Do you?
Do you?
Do you know
specifically?
I know it was 9:46.
Do you know specifically?
- I don't know.
- Why the fuck did you
come back here?
What the fuck
is wrong with you?
- What the fuck is--
- ( phone chiming, buzzing )
( line ringing )
Hey.
Where are you?
Uh, someone told me
that Cameron had an uncle
at the ski school thing.
Uh... uh--
uh, I-- you know,
it was early.
I didn't wanna wake you,
so I rented a car.
You could've woken me.
Nah, it's--
it's all good.
The irony is it turned out
to be a false lead anyway, so.
- Mm.
- I'm up there
and heading back soon.
Um, yeah,
well, we're meeting
at the hotel at my room,
so I'll just text you
when we're over there.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Uh, until then,
anything I should do?
Any-- any leads
I should follow?
Just do
what you're doing.
Okay, I can do that.
Hey, I know Frank told you
about the girl
on that night.
Um, I should've
said something.
I was just
fucking horrified
that Nate was gonna
tell Laura,
and I'd feel bad
about that, so...
I'm, uh-- I'm sorry.
It was, uh--
it was a tourist.
Uh, we met at the bar in town
somewhere, as you do.
Um, from, like,
Norway or something.
Which is Helsinki?
- Finland.
It was Finland.
( chuckles )
I remember I was like,
"I don't think
I've ever met somebody
from Finland before.
That's crazy."
Yeah, no worries.
Um, I'll text you in--
when we're over there,
all right?
Yeah, sounds good.
- All right.
- Okay.
Bye.
Nate:
Finland?
Ilsa from Finland?
Petra:
Yep, Ilsa from Finland.
Nate:
I'm trying to figure out
why he would lie
about who he was with.
Petra:
Well, maybe who he was with
will tell us.
So, uh,
where can I read
one of your books?
( chuckles )
Oh, well, that's easy.
Either you go forward in time
to when I actually finish one
or back in time to just before
I completely unravel one
and throw it away.
I will totally
leave that up to you.
You...
you have a very
interesting life.
Yeah, well,
you're probably standing
a little too close to it.
So, is there any part
of your pie chart at all...
that has
another person?
You know what,
Nate?
I think when
it comes down to it,
- I'm just not
a pie person.
- Yeah.
Hey, yo, Teach!
We're here
on official business.
Yeah, I was like,
"I think he knows
we don't literally bring
the kids home with us."
Yeah. Uh,
Miss B. is the boss
of the lending library.
Assistant boss.
Tia.
Petra.
I had a feeling I was
maybe gonna meet you today.
Are you Joel's wife?
Wha-- no, no.
No.
Uh, is it okay
if we talk inside
for a moment?
Well, he was worried
about hurting his wife,
so he wanted to make sure
if I talked to someone,
I didn't tell them
we, you know, whatever,
spent the night
together.
So, he was here?
Literally there
passed out on the floor.
All night?
I'm sorry, so you'll
go on the record
saying that you were
with Joel from 10:00
New Year's Eve
until... whatever,
first thing New Year's Day,
and you saw Joel there
the whole time?
God, he was all hung up
on the 10:00 thing, too.
I told him
it was midnight.
Oh, I'm sorry,
say that again.
I picked him up
at midnight.
11:57, actually.
( Nate clears throat )
Um, official hat here.
Tia, it is very important
that you tell the truth
about this.
( scoffs )
It is the truth.
I bail on the party.
He's in the lot.
I'm like, "You were
my ski instructor."
And he's like,
"Yeah, what are you
doing here?"
So, as we're leaving,
we hear people celebrating,
and he's like,
"It's midnight.
We should kiss."
But when I pull over,
he's practically asleep
against the window.
Six minutes later,
we come in,
he throws up on himself
and passes out at 12:08,
which I know
'cause I was like,
"Do I wash his pants?
Do I not?
It's a 22-minute cycle,
and I have to be
at work at 9:00."
This isn't about
protecting his wife, is it?
Nate:
Am I missing anyone?
Petra:
Oh, you know,
put the previous renters.
- Nate: Bakers?
- Bethels.
- Tom and Rachel.
And also someone called
Dave and Cynthia Warner.
- E-L-S Bethels?
- Yep.
Here's a question for you.
What is a girl like you
who's smart, pretty,
and funny--
- Nate.
- Tired of the question?
No, he just pulled up.
And, yes, tired of the question.
Okay.
Well, Melissa's decided
to make you her new project.
- She has a list.
- Tell her thanks,
but I'm good.
You tell her.
- Petra: So, what exactly?
- ( water running )
Vehicular pursuit.
February 3rd,
three years ago.
It's a Saturday.
Approximately 4:17 p.m.
It was a--
it was an icy day.
You tired
of that question?
No.
It is what it is.
Started off...
the whole
pain-in-the-butt factor
was far outweighed
by the...
oh-my-God-you're-so-good-
to-her factor.
( chuckles )
Then I was like,
"Okay, I get it.
I'm a freaking saint.
Now, when can we get rid
of the race car bunk bed
in the master bedroom?"
( chuckles )
The answer is never.
I can never...
with my wife, I mean.
The toughest part?
Figuring out which kind of
version of nice I gotta be
to not piss her off.
Thank you.
And that pisses me off.
And then it's, like,
what kind of anger
am I allowed to show?
Because if I don't
show any anger
and-- and then she says
that I'm not being honest.
( shudders )
And I'm not.
Hmm.
- ( elevator dings )
- Nate: Okay.
Nate:
With Horacio,
we're looking
at nothing more
than just a rushed frame-up.
We have two dozen people
placing him at a party
at his own house
for the whole night,
so that leads us
to Michael O'Connor.
He owns the property
up the hill.
Ah!
- Glad you're here.
- Hey, Nate.
Glad you could make it.
Now, this guy Michael
was at the party early
with Olivia.
He was laughing with her,
even arm in arm.
But he leaves
for a dinner at 8:20.
But a witness,
Tom Davis,
puts him back at the house
the time of the murder,
corroborated by the fact
that Olivia called his cell,
which tower pings tells us
was at his house.
The witness,
Tom Davis,
heard Michael's end
of the call.
Olivia was complaining
about the men in her life,
the same as the call
that she made to JC,
her friend,
immediately afterwards.
Mr. O'Connor
then leaves the next day
for Turks and Caicos.
- Joel:
And that's not suspicious?
- Is what suspicious?
He just takes off
to Turks and Caicos?
Oh, no, no,
no, no, no, no.
This guy takes the same trip
every year for 11 years--
same day, same flight.
No, not a suspect.
However,
I know this is touchy,
but we can't--
we can't rule out Eric.
On his hammer
was found her blood,
his prints.
He was redoing her studio.
( hammering )
What are you doing?
Oh, Liv didn't tell you?
This is gonna be
an office now.
Nate:
It was found in his bag.
Petra:
Who puts a murder weapon
in their own bag?
Nate:
Someone in
a rush to leave?
Petra:
Or someone
who's being framed?
Nate, you said
in your own case notes
"Why is Alan
fixated on Eric?"
You didn't-- you didn't
think the case should
close when it did.
Nate:
But we're
getting off track.
Uh, so, we have Eric.
That leads us
to Cameron.
Cameron motive--
the safe?
Probably.
So, check.
Means-- no idea.
Opportunity--
no idea.
Behavior?
Well, he dropped
off the face of the Earth.
Oh, good work
with the maid's niece.
There was a water bill
that had a forwarding address...
in Langer Plain.
There's a name--
Leticia Aguilar or Letty.
I'm still waiting
to get approval to go in.
- Hey, we'll go.
- No, no, no, I still
need more time.
No, we'll be fine.
We can go right now.
We're not done here.
You were also
on the property.
Well, I worked there
and I lived there,
so of course
I was there.
No, I meant
you were there.
So, did you see
anybody?
Or do you know
anybody who could be
a possible suspect?
When you left
at 9:46,
did you see anyone
on your way out?
We've got a list.
We're just trying
to figure out
if there was anybody
who owed her money
or had beefs
or anything.
Well, I'll put
some thought into it.
She pissed
a lot of people off, so.
Can we talk about Ilsa?
Or whatever
her name is.
Sure.
So, uh,
there's no easy way
to say this,
so I just will.
I'm in
a weird place here.
Frank told me
about your concerns,
and, um, I'm not gonna
say anything to Laura.
I believe that's between
you two to, um--
whatever,
to work out.
But there's nothing else,
though, is there?
Nothing else what?
That I need
to know about, Joel.
No.
( sighs )
Okay.
Okay, cool.
- You sure?
- ( chuckles ) Yeah.
( chuckles )
Okay.
Okay,
to Leticia's.
Great.
( phone chimes )
Oh, hey, Nate wanted me
to ask you a question.
JC said you owed her.
I don't follow.
Well, we were
talking about
people who owed her money
back at the hotel,
and I just remembered
that JC said that--
Look, tons owed her.
In my case, it was murky.
I mean, when I first
started there,
she was like,
"Hey, you can work
instead of rent."
And then all of a sudden,
she's like, "You owe me
for 10 months."
And I was like, "What?"
But I wouldn't
say I owed.
Oh, you're gonna
turn up here.
( engine turns off )
So, what are you saying?
This is written down
somewhere?
Well, what was written down
is that she was gonna go
into the new year--
she and Eric both-- clean,
without owing or being owed.
And JC said
he found this out
right before Christmas, so.
Anyway, I wouldn't--
I wouldn't worry too much
about it.
Wait.
When?
I just told you,
before Christmas.
No, when did
you hear this?
Various times
over the last week.
Joel:
You and Nate
spoke about this,
and you and JC
spoke about this?
- ( phone chimes )
- I thought you said
you could not get anybody
to talk to you out here?
I said no one wanted
to talk to me.
( phone chiming )
( phone chimes )
- Leticia?
- You're Joel?
Hi, I'm Petra.
- You got a minute?
- Yeah.
Cameron would
constantly blab about
the safe in the lady's studio
and how it was always
keeping cash.
And then he said
there were some art drawings
for her charity,
and he had did research,
- and they were worth $75,000.
- ( phone chimes )
So, then he figured out
the combination to the safe
- and--
- Wait, I'm sorry.
He just figures out
the combination?
In the Sylvester Stallone
movie "Escape Plan,"
they tell which safe numbers
are used the most
- by how dark the keys are.
- ( phone chimes )
And so, he goes
to the studio
and he was like, "Okay,
5 is darkest by a lot,
and then the 7
and the 8."
And so, then he Googles
a whole bunch of stuff,
including her birthday,
which turns out to be
May 7, 1958.
5-7-5-8.
- So then he broke in?
- I don't know.
'Cause then he was gone.
Christmas Eve.
My Aunt Flor was like,
"I told you about him."
Joel:
How did she know him?
I don't know.
They were busybodies,
my aunt and her friends.
She worked for the rich people,
so she thought she was
so important.
Then she left
and she was suddenly
just an old Mexican lady
in Mexico again.
( scoffs )
That's another one
I don't need to bother with.
When did she leave?
Somewhere around
New Year's.
We weren't close.
I wasn't keeping track.
You know
how to reach her?
No.
Anyway, she got married,
moved out of Mexico.
I have no idea what
her last name is now
or what country
she's even in.
Leticia:
What is it that you keep
looking at in there?
Petra:
Is that painting--
by the window,
is that a Xavier Martinez?
Leticia:
I don't know.
My uncle had it.
You should
have it looked at.
Why? It's ugly.
How much would you
sell it for?
( sighs )
A hundred dollars?
( laughs )
You should
have it looked at.
Let's go.
Thank you.
Joel:
So, clearly, Cameron
tried to break into the safe.
That's why he cut
the security footage,
and that's probably
why I saw him there
the month before that.
The plan?
Steal it on New Year's
when everyone's distracted.
But she--
she surprises him.
She goes back to the studio
and catches him in the act.
We know that the safe
was banged up.
We know that the money
and the drawings were gone.
I'm-- I'm sorry.
Is it rude of me to ask
why you keep changing
your sunglasses?
Is it a looks thing?
Well, not my looks.
But I like to have
at least some control
over the way things
look around me.
( sighs )
Anyways,
I'm checking with a bunch
of kids' book art dealers,
emailing a bunch
to see if anybody's
ever tried to fence
one of her drawings.
It won't prove anything.
Are you kidding me?
It will prove he
stole them.
We already know
he stole them.
But he was gone
on Christmas.
He left Leticia
Maybe even made a big show
of doing it, too--
her, the landlord--
so people would think
he was out of town.
Then he just sneaks
back in on New Year's.
The safe had already
been robbed,
which was why it was
empty when the murder
was discovered.
You don't know that.
It could have been
robbed that night.
Why would you break into
a safe you already had
the combination to?
( phone chimes )
( helicopter approaching )
They found a body.
( helicopter whirring )
( chatter )
( camera shutter clicking )
Nope. No.
You cannot
be here, Alan.
Is that her?
Alan, what are you
doing here?
Tom Davis, he runs--
represents the owners
of the property.
I'm aware of who he is,
but right now, this property
is under my jurisdiction.
- We're not going
to get in anybody's way--
- You already are in the way.
Don't you talk to me
that way!
I'm not doing this now.
Dave?
- Tom: Alan, it's all right.
- It's time to go, Mr. Pape.
- Get your hands off me.
- Mr. Pape, it's time to go.
- Tom: Alan...
- Oh, good. No. Nope.
Trust me,
you guys do not want
to be the technicality
that gets this case
shut down again.
Joel:
"Down again"?
You mean it's open?
Nate: Unofficially.
I'm trying to get it
reopened.
And in light
of the new circumstances,
I think I got
a pretty good shot.
Well, that's--
that's great.
Nate:
Yeah, as long
as nobody screws it up
and I get to do the job
the way I need to do it.
Is that why
Alan was so angry?
It's complicated.
Alan is mad because
he's not boss anymore
and because he's trying
to get information that
I can't give him,
- or to anyone!
- Anyone?
Nate:
Yeah, anyone,
meaning specifically
people who are not
involved in this case.
I need you guys
off the property now.
- Reporter: Detective,
a statement, please.
- Joel, please.
Hey! Especially you.
Look, I'm sorry,
but things are
different now.
I-- I can't
communicate with you.
- Are you serious?
- I need you off
the property now.
Reporter:
Is it Olivia Lake?
Would you secure this,
please?
Reporter:
Can you please give us
some more information?
Nate:
No comment.
Come on, Dave, John.
No comment!
Please, no comment.
Um... excuse me, Petra.
I...
think I need to take
a walk or something.
Oh, sure, sure.
Of course.
I gotta--
I gotta think about
some stuff, too.
( helicopter whirring )
( music playing )